.TH idelvm 1
.SH NAME
idelvm \- runs Idel virtual machine programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idelvm
[
.I option
]...
[
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I idelvm
runs an object file in the Idel virtual machine format.  If no file is
specified in the arguments, it reads one in from standard input.
.PP
.I idelvm
interprets the following options:
.TP
.B \-data \fIn\fP
Set the data memory size in bytes, a positive integer.
.TP
.B \-fuel \fIn\fP
Set the fuel supply, a nonnegative integer.  During execution, 
every operation costs fuel, and a program that runs out is terminated.
.TP
.B \-help
Display this list of options.
.TP
.B \-profile
Turn on execution profiling.  The profile is written to stderr after
the end of the run.  It has one line per basic block, giving the
execution count, the index of the procedure definition it's in
(starting from 0), and the internal opcodes of the basic block (which
you are not expected to understand; this will be changed in a
subsequent release).
.TP
.B \-stack \fIn\fP
Set the stack size in words, a positive integer.
.TP
.B \-version
Echo the version number to standard output, and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.I idelasm
(1), http://wry.me/~darius/software/idel/
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The exit status is between 0 and 127 if 
.I idelvm
successfully completes, and 128 or greater otherwise.  The status on
success is the low 7 bits of whatever the given program returns as its
status.  128 or greater may indicate a bad command-line argument or
object file, or it may mean the given program performed an illegal
operation or exceeded its resources.
.br
.SH BUGS
Report any bugs, along with the shortest program
that exposes them and the output of 
.B idelvm \-version
and 
.B uname \-a
, to darius@wry.me.
